---
title: "How I use the Pomodoro Technique"
original: https://www.utest.com/articles/pomodoro-technique
published: false
---

How do you know you are effectively accomplishing enough work? Do you just sit down and work till you get interrupted? Is it something you don't really think about, you just do?

I'm always worried about, am I being productive enough? I find it easy to slip into procrastinating and being unproductive. So I've tried various different techniques over the years with some successes and some failures. The one I've ended up using the most are Pomodoro's, which is a 25 minute block of focused effort on a task you are working on. For example, I will do 25min of Exploratory Testing on a feature. It's important to define your POMs not as goals, but what you want to do, continuing the example, what if when you started doing the testing you found out that it was going to take you a lot longer then 25 minutes, saying "I will fully test the feature" as a POM would only set you up for failure. After you are done your POM, you can take 5 minutes off, and then start another one. Hypothetically you could do 16 in an 8 hour work day, but with meetings and interruptions, the number will more then likely be significantly smaller.

One thing I'm working on now is how many poms do I do on average per day, this will help me better plan future days with knowing about how much I can get done. I'm overly optimistic to start most days so I think this will really help me dial back my ambitions to be more realistic. Another thing this will help me with is that I wont overdo it (as much). For example lets say my average is 7 POMs per day, and I go bananas and complete 13, the next day I know I will be dragging my feet. I know sometimes you have to go above and beyond, but I think this prepares you better for it and the consequences of it.

The biggest difficulty I find is when should I do all the little stuff? Create a POM for that to? But that's wildly undefined, so I might just end up procrastinating over the time period. How productive is enough? Focusing for 25min over and over again gets tiring. So what's the balance? I've tried doing shorter intervals for more trivial things, but how do I add that into the "How many POMs per day" Just add up all the minutes and divide by 25?

Somethings I like about POMs is that it's really simple to do, there isn't a complicated plan behind it, nobody is making money off me doing it, and, I'm not dependent on anybody else for it getting done.

I would love to hear what your productivity strategies are? Have you tried the Pomodoro Technique?
